projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/signal-forms.md, before:

# Signal Forms Integration

This guide covers using ngxsmk-datepicker with Angular 21+ Signal Forms API.

## Overview

Angular 21 introduced Signal Forms, a new reactive forms API built on signals. The datepicker provides first-class support through the `[field]` input, enabling seamless two-way binding with signal form fields.

## Basic Signal Forms Setup

### Creating a Signal Form

```typescript
import { Component, signal, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-signal-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <form>
      <ngxsmk-datepicker
        [field]="myForm.dateInQuestion"
        mode="single"
        placeholder="Select a date">
      </ngxsmk-datepicker>
    </form>
  `
})
export class SignalFormComponent {
  // Create a signal for your form data
  localObject = signal({
    dateInQuestion: new Date(),
    name: 'John Doe'
  });
  
  // Create a signal form
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    dateInQuestion: objectSchema<Date>(),
    name: objectSchema<string>()
  }));
}
```

## Server-Side Data Integration

### With httpResource

When data comes from a server, use `httpResource` with signal forms:

```typescript
import { Component, inject, signal, linkedSignal, computed } from '@angular/core';
import { httpResource } from '@angular/common/http';
import { HttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
import { form, objectSchema } from '@angular/forms';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-server-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <form>
      <ngxsmk-datepicker
        [field]="myForm.dateInQuestion"
        mode="single"
        placeholder="Select a date">
      </ngxsmk-datepicker>
    </form>
  `
})
export class ServerFormComponent {
  private http = inject(HttpClient);
  
  // Fetch data from server
  resource = httpResource({
    request: () => this.http.get<{ dateInQuestion: Date }>('/api/data'),
    loader: signal(false)
  });
  
  // Link the response to a signal
  localObject = linkedSignal(() => this.resource.response.value() || {
    dateInQuestion: new Date()
  });
  
  // Create form from linked signal
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    dateInQuestion: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
}
```

## Two-Way Binding

The `[field]` input provides automatic two-way binding:

```typescript
@Component({
  // ...
})
export class TwoWayComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: new Date() });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  // The datepicker automatically:
  // 1. Reads from myForm.date.value()
  // 2. Updates myForm.date when user selects a date
  // 3. Handles disabled state from myForm.date.disabled()
}
```

### Signal Field Resolution (v2.0.5+)

The datepicker includes a robust resolution mechanism for signal-based fields. It can handle:
- **Direct Signals**: A signal that contains the field configuration.
- **Signals with Properties**: A signal function that has field properties (like `value`, `disabled`, `setValue`) attached directly to it (common in some Signal Form implementations).
- **Nested Signals**: Signals that return a field configuration object when executed.

The datepicker intelligently detects these patterns and unwraps them automatically.

### Enhanced Type Safety

The library now exports `SignalFormFieldConfig` to allow you to strictly type your field configurations:

```typescript
import { SignalFormFieldConfig } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

const config: SignalFormFieldConfig = {
  value: signal(new Date()),
  disabled: () => false,
  required: true
};
```

**TypeScript Compatibility (v2.0.5+):**

The datepicker is fully compatible with Angular 21+ `FieldTree<string | Date | null, string>` structure. The types accept:
- `WritableSignal<Date | null>` for date values
- `WritableSignal<string | null>` for string date values (automatically converted to Date)
- Any Angular Signal Forms field configuration

String values from Signal Forms are automatically normalized to Date objects internally, ensuring seamless integration with Angular 21+ forms.

## Dirty State Tracking

When using the `[field]` binding, the datepicker automatically tracks the form's dirty state. The form will be marked as dirty when a user selects a date:

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <form>
      <ngxsmk-datepicker
        [field]="myForm.dateDue"
        mode="single"
        placeholder="Select a date">
      </ngxsmk-datepicker>
      
      <button 
        type="submit" 
        [disabled]="!myForm().dirty()">
        Save Changes
      </button>
    </form>
  `
})
export class FormComponent {
  action = signal({ dateDue: new Date() });
  myForm = form(this.action, objectSchema({
    dateDue: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  submitForm() {
    if (!this.myForm().dirty()) {
      console.log('No changes to save');
      return;
    }
    // Submit form...
  }
}
```

**Important Notes:**

1. **Use `[field]` binding for automatic dirty tracking**: The datepicker uses the field's `setValue()` or `updateValue()` methods when available, which properly track dirty state in Angular Signal Forms.

2. **Avoid mixing `[field]` with manual `(valueChange)` handlers**: If you use both `[field]` and `(valueChange)="dateField.set($event)"`, the manual handler bypasses the form API and may prevent dirty state tracking. Use one or the other:
   - ✅ **Recommended**: Use only `[field]="myForm.dateField"` for automatic dirty tracking
   - ⚠️ **Alternative**: Use `[value]` and `(valueChange)` with proper form API methods if you need manual control

3. **Manual binding pattern**: If you must use manual binding (e.g., for stability issues), ensure you update the form using the field's API methods:
   ```typescript
   onDateChange(newDate: Date): void {
     // Use setValue to ensure dirty tracking works
     if (typeof this.myForm.dateField.setValue === 'function') {
       this.myForm.dateField.setValue(newDate);
     } else if (typeof this.myForm.dateField.updateValue === 'function') {
       this.myForm.dateField.updateValue(() => newDate);
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Dev mode warnings**: If the datepicker cannot use `setValue()` or `updateValue()` (e.g., field doesn't provide these methods), it will fall back to direct signal mutation and log a warning in dev mode. This fallback may not track dirty state correctly.

## Manual Updates

You can also manually update form values:

```typescript
@Component({
  // ...
})
export class ManualUpdateComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: new Date() });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  updateDate(newDate: Date) {
    // Option 1: Update the underlying signal
    this.localObject.update(obj => ({
      ...obj,
      date: newDate
    }));
    
    // Option 2: Use form field's setValue (if available)
    if (typeof this.myForm.date.setValue === 'function') {
      this.myForm.date.setValue(newDate);
    }
  }
}
```

## Alternative: Manual Binding with valueChange (Stabilized Pattern)

If you experience stability issues with the `[field]` binding, you can use manual binding with `[value]` and `(valueChange)`. **Important**: To ensure dirty state tracking works correctly, use the field's API methods instead of direct mutation:

```typescript
import { Component, signal, computed, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-stable-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <ngxsmk-datepicker
      class="w-full border:none"
      [value]="myDate()"
      (valueChange)="onMyDateChange($any($event))"
      mode="single"
      placeholder="Select a date">
    </ngxsmk-datepicker>
  `
})
export class StableFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({ myDate: new Date() });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    myDate: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  // Get a signal reference to the date field value
  myDate = computed(() => this.myForm.value().myDate);
  
  onMyDateChange(newDate: Date): void {
    // Use setValue to ensure dirty state tracking works
    if (typeof this.myForm.myDate.setValue === 'function') {
      this.myForm.myDate.setValue(newDate);
    } else if (typeof this.myForm.myDate.updateValue === 'function') {
      this.myForm.myDate.updateValue(() => newDate);
    } else {
      // Fallback: directly mutate the form value object
      // Note: This may not track dirty state correctly
      this.myForm.value().myDate = newDate;
    }
  }
}
```

**Why this pattern works:**
- Uses form API methods (`setValue`/`updateValue`) to ensure dirty state tracking
- Prevents potential change detection loops
- More explicit control over when updates occur
- Useful when `[field]` binding causes stability issues

**Note:** The `$any($event)` cast may be needed if there's a type mismatch between `DatepickerValue` and your expected `Date` type.

**⚠️ Warning**: Direct mutation (`this.myForm.value().myDate = newDate`) bypasses Angular's dirty tracking mechanism. Always prefer using `setValue()` or `updateValue()` when available.

## Validation

Signal Forms support validation. The datepicker respects the field's disabled state:

```typescript
import { Component, signal, form, objectSchema, validators } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  // ...
})
export class ValidatedFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: null as Date | null });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date | null>({
      validators: [
        validators.required()
      ]
    })
  }));
  
  // The datepicker will automatically reflect the disabled state
  // when the field is invalid or disabled
}
```

## Date Range Forms

For date range selection:

```typescript
@Component({
  // ...
})
export class RangeFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({
    startDate: new Date(),
    endDate: new Date()
  });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    startDate: objectSchema<Date>(),
    endDate: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
}
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.startDate"
  mode="single"
  placeholder="Start date">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>

<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.endDate"
  mode="single"
  placeholder="End date">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

Or use a single range picker:

```typescript
localObject = signal({
  dateRange: { start: new Date(), end: new Date() } as { start: Date; end: Date } | null
});

myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
  dateRange: objectSchema<{ start: Date; end: Date } | null>()
}));
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.dateRange"
  mode="range">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## Migration from Reactive Forms

### Before (Reactive Forms)

```typescript
import { FormGroup, FormControl } from '@angular/forms';

export class OldFormComponent {
  form = new FormGroup({
    date: new FormControl<Date | null>(null)
  });
}
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  formControlName="date"
  mode="single">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### After (Signal Forms)

```typescript
import { signal, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';

export class NewFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: null as Date | null });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date | null>()
  }));
}
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.date"
  mode="single">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## Benefits of Signal Forms

1. **Automatic Synchronization**: The `[field]` input automatically syncs with form state
2. **Reactive Updates**: Changes to the form field automatically update the datepicker
3. **Server Integration**: Works seamlessly with `httpResource` and `linkedSignal`
4. **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with proper types
5. **Performance**: Signals provide better performance than traditional reactive forms

## Server-Side Data with Manual Binding (Workaround Pattern)

If you're experiencing issues with `[field]` binding not populating initial values from the server, or if you need to work around readonly form limitations, use this pattern that ensures both initial population and updates work correctly:

```typescript
import { Component, signal, computed, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent, DatepickerValue } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-server-form-manual',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <ngxsmk-datepicker
      class="w-full border:none"
      [value]="dateInQuestion()"
      (valueChange)="onDateChange($any($event))"
      mode="single"
      placeholder="Select a date">
    </ngxsmk-datepicker>
  `
})
export class ServerFormManualComponent {
  localObject = signal<{ dateInQuestion: Date | null }>({
    dateInQuestion: null
  });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    dateInQuestion: objectSchema<Date | null>()
  }));
  
  dateInQuestion = computed(() => {
    const value = this.myForm.value().dateInQuestion;
    if (value && typeof value === 'string') {
      return new Date(value);
    }
    return value;
  });
  
  onDateChange(newDate: DatepickerValue | null): void {
    if (newDate) {
      const dateValue = newDate instanceof Date 
        ? newDate 
        : new Date(newDate.toLocaleString());
      
      this.localObject.update(obj => ({
        ...obj,
        dateInQuestion: dateValue
      }));
    } else {
      this.localObject.update(obj => ({
        ...obj,
        dateInQuestion: null
      }));
    }
  }
  
  updateFormFromServer(serverDate: Date | string): void {
    const dateValue = serverDate instanceof Date 
      ? serverDate 
      : new Date(serverDate);
    
    this.localObject.update(obj => ({
      ...obj,
      dateInQuestion: dateValue
    }));
  }
  
  resetForm(): void {
    this.localObject.set({
      dateInQuestion: null
    });
  }
}
```

**Key points of this pattern:**
- Uses `computed()` to create a reactive signal that reads from the form value
- Updates the underlying `localObject` signal when dates change, which automatically updates the form
- Ensures initial server values populate correctly by updating `localObject` when data arrives
- Works around readonly form limitations by not directly binding to the form field
- Handles both initial population and subsequent updates

**When to use this pattern:**
- When `[field]` binding doesn't populate initial server values
- When working with readonly form signals
- When you need more control over when form updates occur
- When you need to handle date format conversions (string to Date)

## Troubleshooting

### Field not updating

If the field value isn't updating, ensure:
1. The field is properly initialized: `localObject = signal({ date: ... })`
2. The form is created correctly: `form(this.localObject, objectSchema({ ... }))`
3. The field reference is correct: `[field]="myForm.date"` (not `myForm().date`)

### Initial value not showing

If the initial value from the server isn't showing:

**With `[field]` binding:**
1. Ensure `localObject` is initialized with the server data
2. Use `linkedSignal` for reactive server data
3. Check that the date value is a valid Date object
4. If using readonly form, consider the manual binding pattern above

**With manual `[value]` binding:**
1. Use a `computed()` signal that reads from `myForm.value().fieldName`
2. Update the underlying `localObject` signal when server data arrives
3. Ensure the computed signal is properly reactive to form changes
4. Convert string dates to Date objects if your server returns strings

### Readonly form signal issues

If you're using `protected readonly form = form(...)` and controls aren't updating:

1. **Option 1**: Remove `readonly` if possible
2. **Option 2**: Use the manual binding pattern with `[value]` and `(valueChange)` shown above
3. **Option 3**: Update the underlying `localObject` signal instead of the form directly

### Disabled state not working

The datepicker automatically reads `field.disabled()`. If it's not working:
1. Ensure the field has a `disabled` property or function
2. Check that the form validation is set up correctly
3. When using manual binding, you may need to manually bind `[disabledState]`

### Form not marking as dirty

If `form().dirty()` returns `false` after selecting a date:

1. **Ensure you're using `[field]` binding**: The `[field]` input automatically uses the form's API methods to track dirty state.
   ```html
   <!-- ✅ Correct - uses [field] binding -->
   <ngxsmk-datepicker [field]="myForm.dateField" mode="single"></ngxsmk-datepicker>
   ```

2. **Avoid mixing `[field]` with manual `(valueChange)`**: Don't use both together, as the manual handler may bypass form tracking:
   ```html
   <!-- ❌ Incorrect - manual handler bypasses form API -->
   <ngxsmk-datepicker 
     [field]="myForm.dateField"
     (valueChange)="dateField.set($event)"
     mode="single">
   </ngxsmk-datepicker>
   ```

3. **Use form API methods in manual handlers**: If you must use manual binding, use `setValue()` or `updateValue()`:
   ```typescript
   onDateChange(newDate: Date): void {
     // ✅ Correct - uses form API
     this.myForm.dateField.setValue(newDate);
     
     // ❌ Incorrect - bypasses dirty tracking
     // this.dateField.set(newDate);
   }
   ```

4. **Check dev console warnings**: In development mode, the datepicker logs warnings if it falls back to direct signal mutation, which may not track dirty state correctly.

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for v2.0.5 and fix demo app styles
- Add Form Validation section to READMEs and signal-forms.md

- Update API.md with missing inputs

- Update CHANGELOG and MIGRATION guides

- Fix ionic integration styles in demo app

- Update software version in demo app metadata

projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/signal-forms.md, after:

# Signal Forms Integration

This guide covers using ngxsmk-datepicker with Angular 21+ Signal Forms API.

## Overview

Angular 21 introduced Signal Forms, a new reactive forms API built on signals. The datepicker provides first-class support through the `[field]` input, enabling seamless two-way binding with signal form fields.

## Basic Signal Forms Setup

### Creating a Signal Form

```typescript
import { Component, signal, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-signal-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <form>
      <ngxsmk-datepicker
        [field]="myForm.dateInQuestion"
        mode="single"
        placeholder="Select a date">
      </ngxsmk-datepicker>
    </form>
  `
})
export class SignalFormComponent {
  // Create a signal for your form data
  localObject = signal({
    dateInQuestion: new Date(),
    name: 'John Doe'
  });
  
  // Create a signal form
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    dateInQuestion: objectSchema<Date>(),
    name: objectSchema<string>()
  }));
}
```

## Server-Side Data Integration

### With httpResource

When data comes from a server, use `httpResource` with signal forms:

```typescript
import { Component, inject, signal, linkedSignal, computed } from '@angular/core';
import { httpResource } from '@angular/common/http';
import { HttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
import { form, objectSchema } from '@angular/forms';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-server-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <form>
      <ngxsmk-datepicker
        [field]="myForm.dateInQuestion"
        mode="single"
        placeholder="Select a date">
      </ngxsmk-datepicker>
    </form>
  `
})
export class ServerFormComponent {
  private http = inject(HttpClient);
  
  // Fetch data from server
  resource = httpResource({
    request: () => this.http.get<{ dateInQuestion: Date }>('/api/data'),
    loader: signal(false)
  });
  
  // Link the response to a signal
  localObject = linkedSignal(() => this.resource.response.value() || {
    dateInQuestion: new Date()
  });
  
  // Create form from linked signal
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    dateInQuestion: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
}
```

## Two-Way Binding

The `[field]` input provides automatic two-way binding:

```typescript
@Component({
  // ...
})
export class TwoWayComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: new Date() });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  // The datepicker automatically:
  // 1. Reads from myForm.date.value()
  // 2. Updates myForm.date when user selects a date
  // 3. Handles disabled state from myForm.date.disabled()
}
```

### Signal Field Resolution (v2.0.5+)

The datepicker includes a robust resolution mechanism for signal-based fields. It can handle:
- **Direct Signals**: A signal that contains the field configuration.
- **Signals with Properties**: A signal function that has field properties (like `value`, `disabled`, `setValue`) attached directly to it (common in some Signal Form implementations).
- **Nested Signals**: Signals that return a field configuration object when executed.

The datepicker intelligently detects these patterns and unwraps them automatically.

### Enhanced Type Safety

The library now exports `SignalFormFieldConfig` to allow you to strictly type your field configurations:

```typescript
import { SignalFormFieldConfig } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

const config: SignalFormFieldConfig = {
  value: signal(new Date()),
  disabled: () => false,
  required: true
};
```

**TypeScript Compatibility (v2.0.5+):**

The datepicker is fully compatible with Angular 21+ `FieldTree<string | Date | null, string>` structure. The types accept:
- `WritableSignal<Date | null>` for date values
- `WritableSignal<string | null>` for string date values (automatically converted to Date)
- Any Angular Signal Forms field configuration

String values from Signal Forms are automatically normalized to Date objects internally, ensuring seamless integration with Angular 21+ forms.

## Dirty State Tracking

When using the `[field]` binding, the datepicker automatically tracks the form's dirty state. The form will be marked as dirty when a user selects a date:

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <form>
      <ngxsmk-datepicker
        [field]="myForm.dateDue"
        mode="single"
        placeholder="Select a date">
      </ngxsmk-datepicker>
      
      <button 
        type="submit" 
        [disabled]="!myForm().dirty()">
        Save Changes
      </button>
    </form>
  `
})
export class FormComponent {
  action = signal({ dateDue: new Date() });
  myForm = form(this.action, objectSchema({
    dateDue: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  submitForm() {
    if (!this.myForm().dirty()) {
      console.log('No changes to save');
      return;
    }
    // Submit form...
  }
}
```

**Important Notes:**

1. **Use `[field]` binding for automatic dirty tracking**: The datepicker uses the field's `setValue()` or `updateValue()` methods when available, which properly track dirty state in Angular Signal Forms.

2. **Avoid mixing `[field]` with manual `(valueChange)` handlers**: If you use both `[field]` and `(valueChange)="dateField.set($event)"`, the manual handler bypasses the form API and may prevent dirty state tracking. Use one or the other:
   - ✅ **Recommended**: Use only `[field]="myForm.dateField"` for automatic dirty tracking
   - ⚠️ **Alternative**: Use `[value]` and `(valueChange)` with proper form API methods if you need manual control

3. **Manual binding pattern**: If you must use manual binding (e.g., for stability issues), ensure you update the form using the field's API methods:
   ```typescript
   onDateChange(newDate: Date): void {
     // Use setValue to ensure dirty tracking works
     if (typeof this.myForm.dateField.setValue === 'function') {
       this.myForm.dateField.setValue(newDate);
     } else if (typeof this.myForm.dateField.updateValue === 'function') {
       this.myForm.dateField.updateValue(() => newDate);
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Dev mode warnings**: If the datepicker cannot use `setValue()` or `updateValue()` (e.g., field doesn't provide these methods), it will fall back to direct signal mutation and log a warning in dev mode. This fallback may not track dirty state correctly.

## Manual Updates

You can also manually update form values:

```typescript
@Component({
  // ...
})
export class ManualUpdateComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: new Date() });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  updateDate(newDate: Date) {
    // Option 1: Update the underlying signal
    this.localObject.update(obj => ({
      ...obj,
      date: newDate
    }));
    
    // Option 2: Use form field's setValue (if available)
    if (typeof this.myForm.date.setValue === 'function') {
      this.myForm.date.setValue(newDate);
    }
  }
}
```

## Alternative: Manual Binding with valueChange (Stabilized Pattern)

If you experience stability issues with the `[field]` binding, you can use manual binding with `[value]` and `(valueChange)`. **Important**: To ensure dirty state tracking works correctly, use the field's API methods instead of direct mutation:

```typescript
import { Component, signal, computed, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-stable-form',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <ngxsmk-datepicker
      class="w-full border:none"
      [value]="myDate()"
      (valueChange)="onMyDateChange($any($event))"
      mode="single"
      placeholder="Select a date">
    </ngxsmk-datepicker>
  `
})
export class StableFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({ myDate: new Date() });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    myDate: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
  
  // Get a signal reference to the date field value
  myDate = computed(() => this.myForm.value().myDate);
  
  onMyDateChange(newDate: Date): void {
    // Use setValue to ensure dirty state tracking works
    if (typeof this.myForm.myDate.setValue === 'function') {
      this.myForm.myDate.setValue(newDate);
    } else if (typeof this.myForm.myDate.updateValue === 'function') {
      this.myForm.myDate.updateValue(() => newDate);
    } else {
      // Fallback: directly mutate the form value object
      // Note: This may not track dirty state correctly
      this.myForm.value().myDate = newDate;
    }
  }
}
```

**Why this pattern works:**
- Uses form API methods (`setValue`/`updateValue`) to ensure dirty state tracking
- Prevents potential change detection loops
- More explicit control over when updates occur
- Useful when `[field]` binding causes stability issues

**Note:** The `$any($event)` cast may be needed if there's a type mismatch between `DatepickerValue` and your expected `Date` type.

**⚠️ Warning**: Direct mutation (`this.myForm.value().myDate = newDate`) bypasses Angular's dirty tracking mechanism. Always prefer using `setValue()` or `updateValue()` when available.

## Validation

Signal Forms support validation. The datepicker respects the field's disabled state:

```typescript
import { Component, signal, form, objectSchema, validators } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  // ...
})
export class ValidatedFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: null as Date | null });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date | null>({
      validators: [
        validators.required()
      ]
    })
  }));
  
  // The datepicker will automatically reflect the disabled state
  // when the field is invalid or disabled
}
```

### Note on Native Validation
By default, the datepicker input is `readonly`. Browsers do not validate `readonly` fields. To enable native browser validation (e.g., blocking submit on empty required fields), set `[allowTyping]="true"`.

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker [field]="myForm.date" [allowTyping]="true" required ...></ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## Date Range Forms

For date range selection:

```typescript
@Component({
  // ...
})
export class RangeFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({
    startDate: new Date(),
    endDate: new Date()
  });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    startDate: objectSchema<Date>(),
    endDate: objectSchema<Date>()
  }));
}
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.startDate"
  mode="single"
  placeholder="Start date">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>

<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.endDate"
  mode="single"
  placeholder="End date">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

Or use a single range picker:

```typescript
localObject = signal({
  dateRange: { start: new Date(), end: new Date() } as { start: Date; end: Date } | null
});

myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
  dateRange: objectSchema<{ start: Date; end: Date } | null>()
}));
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.dateRange"
  mode="range">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## Migration from Reactive Forms

### Before (Reactive Forms)

```typescript
import { FormGroup, FormControl } from '@angular/forms';

export class OldFormComponent {
  form = new FormGroup({
    date: new FormControl<Date | null>(null)
  });
}
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  formControlName="date"
  mode="single">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### After (Signal Forms)

```typescript
import { signal, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';

export class NewFormComponent {
  localObject = signal({ date: null as Date | null });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    date: objectSchema<Date | null>()
  }));
}
```

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [field]="myForm.date"
  mode="single">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## Benefits of Signal Forms

1. **Automatic Synchronization**: The `[field]` input automatically syncs with form state
2. **Reactive Updates**: Changes to the form field automatically update the datepicker
3. **Server Integration**: Works seamlessly with `httpResource` and `linkedSignal`
4. **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with proper types
5. **Performance**: Signals provide better performance than traditional reactive forms

## Server-Side Data with Manual Binding (Workaround Pattern)

If you're experiencing issues with `[field]` binding not populating initial values from the server, or if you need to work around readonly form limitations, use this pattern that ensures both initial population and updates work correctly:

```typescript
import { Component, signal, computed, form, objectSchema } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent, DatepickerValue } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-server-form-manual',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  template: `
    <ngxsmk-datepicker
      class="w-full border:none"
      [value]="dateInQuestion()"
      (valueChange)="onDateChange($any($event))"
      mode="single"
      placeholder="Select a date">
    </ngxsmk-datepicker>
  `
})
export class ServerFormManualComponent {
  localObject = signal<{ dateInQuestion: Date | null }>({
    dateInQuestion: null
  });
  
  myForm = form(this.localObject, objectSchema({
    dateInQuestion: objectSchema<Date | null>()
  }));
  
  dateInQuestion = computed(() => {
    const value = this.myForm.value().dateInQuestion;
    if (value && typeof value === 'string') {
      return new Date(value);
    }
    return value;
  });
  
  onDateChange(newDate: DatepickerValue | null): void {
    if (newDate) {
      const dateValue = newDate instanceof Date 
        ? newDate 
        : new Date(newDate.toLocaleString());
      
      this.localObject.update(obj => ({
        ...obj,
        dateInQuestion: dateValue
      }));
    } else {
      this.localObject.update(obj => ({
        ...obj,
        dateInQuestion: null
      }));
    }
  }
  
  updateFormFromServer(serverDate: Date | string): void {
    const dateValue = serverDate instanceof Date 
      ? serverDate 
      : new Date(serverDate);
    
    this.localObject.update(obj => ({
      ...obj,
      dateInQuestion: dateValue
    }));
  }
  
  resetForm(): void {
    this.localObject.set({
      dateInQuestion: null
    });
  }
}
```

**Key points of this pattern:**
- Uses `computed()` to create a reactive signal that reads from the form value
- Updates the underlying `localObject` signal when dates change, which automatically updates the form
- Ensures initial server values populate correctly by updating `localObject` when data arrives
- Works around readonly form limitations by not directly binding to the form field
- Handles both initial population and subsequent updates

**When to use this pattern:**
- When `[field]` binding doesn't populate initial server values
- When working with readonly form signals
- When you need more control over when form updates occur
- When you need to handle date format conversions (string to Date)

## Troubleshooting

### Field not updating

If the field value isn't updating, ensure:
1. The field is properly initialized: `localObject = signal({ date: ... })`
2. The form is created correctly: `form(this.localObject, objectSchema({ ... }))`
3. The field reference is correct: `[field]="myForm.date"` (not `myForm().date`)

### Initial value not showing

If the initial value from the server isn't showing:

**With `[field]` binding:**
1. Ensure `localObject` is initialized with the server data
2. Use `linkedSignal` for reactive server data
3. Check that the date value is a valid Date object
4. If using readonly form, consider the manual binding pattern above

**With manual `[value]` binding:**
1. Use a `computed()` signal that reads from `myForm.value().fieldName`
2. Update the underlying `localObject` signal when server data arrives
3. Ensure the computed signal is properly reactive to form changes
4. Convert string dates to Date objects if your server returns strings

### Readonly form signal issues

If you're using `protected readonly form = form(...)` and controls aren't updating:

1. **Option 1**: Remove `readonly` if possible
2. **Option 2**: Use the manual binding pattern with `[value]` and `(valueChange)` shown above
3. **Option 3**: Update the underlying `localObject` signal instead of the form directly

### Disabled state not working

The datepicker automatically reads `field.disabled()`. If it's not working:
1. Ensure the field has a `disabled` property or function
2. Check that the form validation is set up correctly
3. When using manual binding, you may need to manually bind `[disabledState]`

### Form not marking as dirty

If `form().dirty()` returns `false` after selecting a date:

1. **Ensure you're using `[field]` binding**: The `[field]` input automatically uses the form's API methods to track dirty state.
   ```html
   <!-- ✅ Correct - uses [field] binding -->
   <ngxsmk-datepicker [field]="myForm.dateField" mode="single"></ngxsmk-datepicker>
   ```

2. **Avoid mixing `[field]` with manual `(valueChange)`**: Don't use both together, as the manual handler may bypass form tracking:
   ```html
   <!-- ❌ Incorrect - manual handler bypasses form API -->
   <ngxsmk-datepicker 
     [field]="myForm.dateField"
     (valueChange)="dateField.set($event)"
     mode="single">
   </ngxsmk-datepicker>
   ```

3. **Use form API methods in manual handlers**: If you must use manual binding, use `setValue()` or `updateValue()`:
   ```typescript
   onDateChange(newDate: Date): void {
     // ✅ Correct - uses form API
     this.myForm.dateField.setValue(newDate);
     
     // ❌ Incorrect - bypasses dirty tracking
     // this.dateField.set(newDate);
   }
   ```

4. **Check dev console warnings**: In development mode, the datepicker logs warnings if it falls back to direct signal mutation, which may not track dirty state correctly.
