projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/README.md, before:

# ngxsmk-datepicker Library

A modern, powerful, and fully customizable date and date-range picker component designed for Angular 17+ and Ionic applications. Seamlessly integrates with both frameworks, offering a flexible, mobile-friendly UI and advanced features to enhance date selection experiences in your apps.

## 📦 Package Information

- **NPM Package**: [ngxsmk-datepicker](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngxsmk-datepicker)
- **GitHub Repository**: [https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker](https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker)
- **Live Demo**: [https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker)
- **GitHub Pages Demo**: [https://ngxsmk.github.io/ngxsmk-datepicker/](https://ngxsmk.github.io/ngxsmk-datepicker/)
- **Version**: 1.7.0
- **License**: MIT
- **Author**: Sachin Dilshan

## 📷 Screenshots

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker/raw/main/projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/1.png" alt="Angular Advanced Date Range Picker" width="420" />
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker/raw/main/projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/2.png" alt="Angular Localization" width="420" />
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker/raw/main/projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/3.png" alt="Angular Single Date Selection" width="420" />
</p>

## 🚀 Performance Optimizations

This library has been optimized for maximum performance:

- **30% Smaller Bundle**: Optimized build configuration and tree-shaking
- **40% Faster Rendering**: OnPush change detection strategy with proper triggers
- **60% Faster Selection**: Memoized date comparisons and debounced operations
- **Zero Dependencies**: Standalone component with no external dependencies
- **Tree-shakable**: Only import what you need
- **Memory Efficient**: Cache size limits prevent memory leaks
- **Hardware Accelerated**: CSS optimizations for smooth animations
- **Mobile Optimized**: Touch-friendly interactions and responsive design

## ✨ Features

- **Multiple Selection Modes**: Supports `single`, `range`, and `multiple` date selection
- **Inline and Popover Display**: Can be rendered inline or as a popover with automatic mode detection
- **Light and Dark Themes**: Includes built-in support for light and dark modes
- **Holiday Marking**: Automatically mark and disable holidays using a custom `HolidayProvider`
- **Holiday Tooltips**: Hover over holiday dates to see holiday names as tooltips
- **Disabled Dates**: Disable specific dates by passing an array of date strings or Date objects
- **Date & Time Selection**: Supports optional time inputs with configurable minute intervals
- **12h/24h Time Support**: Uses internal 24-hour timekeeping but displays a user-friendly 12-hour clock with AM/PM toggle
- **Predefined Date Ranges**: Offers quick selection of common ranges (e.g., "Last 7 Days")
- **Advanced Localization (i18n)**: Automatically handles month/weekday names and week start days based on the browser's locale
- **Previous Month Context**: Shows last few days of previous month for better date selection context
- **Smart Initial View**: Automatically shows minDate's month when minDate is in the future
- **Custom Styling**: All component elements are prefixed with `ngxsmk-` and themeable via CSS custom properties
- **Zero Dependencies**: The component is standalone and lightweight

## 🚀 Installation

```bash
npm install ngxsmk-datepicker
```

## 📖 Usage

ngxsmk-datepicker is a standalone component, so you can import it directly into your component or module.

### 1. Import the Component

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent, DateRange, HolidayProvider } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Example for predefined ranges
  public myRanges: DateRange = {
    'Today': [new Date(), new Date()],
    'Last 7 Days': [new Date(new Date().setDate(new Date().getDate() - 6)), new Date()],
    'This Month': [new Date(new Date().getFullYear(), new Date().getMonth(), 1), new Date(new Date().getFullYear(), new Date().getMonth() + 1, 0)],
  };

  // Example for disabling weekends
  isWeekend = (date: Date): boolean => {
    const day = date.getDay();
    return day === 0 || day === 6; // Sunday or Saturday
  };

  onDateChange(value: Date | { start: Date; end: Date } | Date[]) {
    console.log('Date changed:', value);
  }
}
```

### 2. Add it to Your Template

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [mode]="'range'"
  [ranges]="myRanges"
  [showTime]="true"
  [minuteInterval]="15"
  [minDate]="today"
  [isInvalidDate]="isWeekend"
  [locale]="'en-US'"
  [theme]="'light'"
  [inline]="'auto'"
  (valueChange)="onDateChange($event)">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### 3. Disabled Dates Example

Disable specific dates by passing an array of date strings or Date objects:

```typescript
// In your component
disabledDates = ['10/21/2025', '08/21/2025', '10/15/2025', '10/8/2025', '10/3/2025'];

// In your template
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [mode]="'single'"
  [disabledDates]="disabledDates"
  placeholder="Select a date">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### 4. Holiday Tooltips Example

Holiday dates automatically show tooltips when you hover over them:

```typescript
// Holiday provider with tooltips
class MyHolidayProvider implements HolidayProvider {
  private holidays: { [key: string]: string } = {
    '2025-01-01': 'New Year\'s Day',
    '2025-07-04': 'Independence Day',
    '2025-12-25': 'Christmas Day',
  };

  isHoliday(date: Date): boolean {
    const key = this.formatDateKey(date);
    return !!this.holidays[key];
  }

  getHolidayLabel(date: Date): string | null {
    const key = this.formatDateKey(date);
    return this.holidays[key] || null;
  }
}

// In your template
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [holidayProvider]="holidayProvider"
  [disableHolidays]="false"
  placeholder="Hover over holidays to see tooltips">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### 5. Smart Initial View with Future minDate

When you set a `minDate` that is in the future, the datepicker will automatically open to that month:

```typescript
// Example: Current date is 10/21/2025, but you want to restrict selection to December 2025
const futureMinDate = new Date(2025, 11, 15); // December 15, 2025
const futureMaxDate = new Date(2025, 11, 21); // December 21, 2025

// The datepicker will automatically show December 2025 when opened
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [minDate]="futureMinDate"
  [maxDate]="futureMaxDate"
  [mode]="'single'">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## ⚙️ API Reference

### Inputs

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|:---------|:-----|:--------|:------------|
| `mode` | `'single' \| 'range' \| 'multiple'` | `'single'` | The selection mode |
| `inline` | `boolean \| 'always' \| 'auto'` | `false` | Controls the display mode |
| `locale` | `string` | `navigator.language` | Sets the locale for language and regional formatting |
| `theme` | `'light' \| 'dark'` | `'light'` | The color theme |
| `showRanges` | `boolean` | `true` | If true, displays the predefined ranges panel when in 'range' mode |
| `minDate` | `DateInput` | `null` | The earliest selectable date. When set to a future date, the calendar will automatically open to that month |
| `maxDate` | `DateInput` | `null` | The latest selectable date |
| `isInvalidDate` | `(date: Date) => boolean` | `() => false` | A function to programmatically disable specific dates |
| `ranges` | `DateRange` | `null` | An object of predefined date ranges |
| `minuteInterval` | `number` | `1` | Interval for minute dropdown options |
| `showTime` | `boolean` | `false` | Enables the hour/minute/AM/PM selection section |
| `value` | `DatepickerValue` | `null` | The initial selected date, date range, or array of dates |
| `startAt` | `DateInput` | `null` | The date to initially center the calendar view on |
| `holidayProvider` | `HolidayProvider` | `null` | An object that provides holiday information |
| `disableHolidays` | `boolean` | `false` | If true, disables holiday dates from being selected |
| `disabledDates` | `(string \| Date)[]` | `[]` | Array of dates to disable. Supports both string dates (MM/DD/YYYY) and Date objects |
| `prevMonthLabel` | `string` | `'Previous month'` | Aria-label for the previous month navigation button. |
| `nextMonthLabel` | `string` | `'Next month'` | Aria-label for the next month navigation button. |

### Outputs

| Event | Payload | Description |
|:------|:--------|:------------|
| `valueChange` | `DatepickerValue` | Emits the newly selected date, range, or array of dates |
| `action` | `{ type: string; payload?: any }` | Emits various events like `dateSelected`, `timeChanged`, etc. |

## 🎨 Theming

You can easily customize the colors of the datepicker by overriding the CSS custom properties in your own stylesheet.

```css
ngxsmk-datepicker {
  --datepicker-primary-color: #d9267d;      /* Main color for selected dates */
  --datepicker-primary-contrast: #ffffff;  /* Text color on selected dates */
  --datepicker-range-background: #fce7f3;  /* Background for the date range bar */
}
```

To enable the dark theme, simply bind the theme input:

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker [theme]="'dark'"></ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## 🌍 Localization

The `locale` input controls all internationalization. It automatically formats month names, weekday names, and sets the first day of the week.

```html
<!-- Renders the calendar in German -->
<ngxsmk-datepicker [locale]="'de-DE'"></ngxsmk-datepicker>

<!-- Renders the calendar in French -->
<ngxsmk-datepicker [locale]="'fr-FR'"></ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## 🎯 Browser Support

- **Chrome** 90+
- **Firefox** 88+
- **Safari** 14+
- **Edge** 90+
- **Mobile Safari** 14+
- **Chrome Mobile** 90+

## 📊 Performance Metrics

- **Bundle Size**: 30% smaller than previous versions
- **Initial Render**: 40% faster
- **Date Selection**: 60% faster
- **Memory Usage**: 25% reduction
- **Change Detection**: 60% fewer cycles
- **Mobile Performance**: 50% faster touch interactions
- **Memory Leaks**: 100% eliminated with cache limits
- **Type Safety**: 100% TypeScript strict mode compliance

## 🐛 Bug Fixes & Improvements

### Critical Bug Fixes in v1.4.15:
- ✅ **Change Detection**: Fixed OnPush change detection issues with proper `markForCheck()` triggers
- ✅ **Date Comparison**: Fixed null safety issues in date range comparisons
- ✅ **Memory Leaks**: Added cache size limits to prevent memory leaks
- ✅ **Type Safety**: Improved TypeScript types and null safety checks
- ✅ **Mobile UX**: Enhanced mobile interactions and touch feedback
- ✅ **Performance**: Optimized template bindings with memoized functions
- ✅ **Accessibility**: Better focus states and keyboard navigation
- ✅ **Build System**: Improved build configuration and optimization

### Performance Enhancements:
- 🚀 **30% Smaller Bundle**: Optimized build configuration
- 🚀 **40% Faster Rendering**: Enhanced OnPush change detection
- 🚀 **60% Faster Selection**: Memoized date comparisons
- 🚀 **Memory Efficient**: Cache size limits prevent memory leaks
- 🚀 **Hardware Accelerated**: CSS optimizations for smooth animations

## 🔧 Development

### Building the Library

```bash
# Build the library
npm run build

# Build optimized version
npm run build:optimized

# Analyze bundle size
npm run build:analyze
```

### Testing

```bash
# Run unit tests
npm test

# Run e2e tests
npm run e2e
```

## 📦 Package Structure

```
ngxsmk-datepicker/
├── src/
│   ├── lib/
│   │   ├── components/          # Custom components
│   │   ├── utils/               # Utility functions
│   │   ├── styles/              # CSS styles
│   │   └── ngxsmk-datepicker.ts # Main component
│   └── public-api.ts            # Public API exports
├── docs/                        # Documentation
└── package.json                 # Package configuration
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome and appreciate contributions from the community! Please see our [Contributing Guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 📄 Changelog

### v1.7.0 (Latest)
- 🧪 **Issue Test Suite**: Added comprehensive test suites for issues #8 and #13
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Fixed programmatic value setting and Angular 21 compatibility tests
- 🧹 **Code Cleanup**: Removed unnecessary files, folders, and comments from codebase
- 📝 **Test Improvements**: Enhanced test coverage with issue-specific test files
- 🔧 **Test Fixes**: Fixed disabled date tests and integration test issues
- 🎯 **Code Quality**: Improved code maintainability by removing redundant comments

### v1.6.0
- 🎯 **Programmatic Value Setting**: Added `value` input property to set datepicker value programmatically, perfect for server-side API data integration
- 🎨 **Enhanced Demo App**: Completely redesigned demo application with TokiForge-inspired modern UI and API documentation style
- 🚀 **GitHub Pages Deployment**: Added automated GitHub Pages deployment with GitHub Actions workflow
- 📚 **Improved Documentation**: Enhanced demo app with comprehensive examples, code snippets, and interactive documentation
- 🔧 **Build Optimizations**: Updated CSS budget limits and improved build configuration
- 🎨 **Modern UI Design**: Beautiful gradient themes, glass-morphism effects, and improved visual hierarchy
- 📱 **Better UX**: Enhanced navigation, code copying functionality, and responsive design
- 🛠️ **Developer Experience**: Improved build scripts and deployment automation

### v1.5.0
- 🚀 **Angular 21 Support**: Full compatibility with Angular 21 RC versions
- ⚡ **Zone-less Support**: Works without zone.js for improved performance
- 🧪 **Comprehensive Tests**: Added extensive test suite covering all features
- 🔧 **Angular 17-21 Compatibility**: Supports Angular versions 17, 18, 19, 20, and 21
- 📦 **Dependency Updates**: Updated to Angular 21 RC and latest build tools
- 🧹 **Code Cleanup**: Removed unnecessary documentation files and comments
- 📝 **Improved Keywords**: Added version-specific keywords for better discoverability
- 🎯 **Peer Dependencies**: Updated to support Angular 17-21 range

### v1.4.16
- 📚 **Documentation**: Comprehensive README updates with latest features and improvements
- 🎯 **Version Management**: Updated version references across all package files
- 📖 **User Experience**: Enhanced documentation with better examples and API references
- 🔧 **Maintenance**: Improved project structure and documentation consistency
- 📦 **Package Updates**: Synchronized version numbers across all package.json files
- 🎨 **Documentation**: Added detailed bug fixes and performance metrics
- 🚀 **Developer Experience**: Better setup instructions and contribution guidelines

### v1.4.15
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Fixed 10 critical bugs including change detection issues and date comparison errors
- ⚡ **Performance**: Enhanced OnPush change detection with proper triggers
- 🎯 **Memory Management**: Added cache size limits to prevent memory leaks
- 🔧 **Type Safety**: Improved TypeScript types and null safety
- 📱 **Mobile Optimization**: Enhanced mobile responsive design with touch-friendly interactions
- 🎨 **UI Improvements**: Better visual feedback and accessibility
- 🚀 **Build Optimization**: Improved build configuration and tree-shaking
- 🧹 **Code Quality**: Enhanced code maintainability and performance

### v1.4.13
- 🚫 **Disabled Dates**: New `disabledDates` input property to disable specific dates
- 🎯 **Date String Support**: Supports both string dates (MM/DD/YYYY) and Date objects
- 💡 **Holiday Tooltips**: Hover over holiday dates to see holiday names as tooltips
- 🎨 **Enhanced UX**: Better visual feedback for disabled dates
- 📦 **Improved API**: More flexible date disabling options
- 🎯 **Smart Initial View**: Datepicker now automatically opens to minDate's month when minDate is set to a future date
- 🚀 **Enhanced UX**: No more scrolling through months to reach future date ranges
- 📅 **Intelligent Defaults**: Automatically centers the calendar view on the earliest available date

### v1.4.12
- ⚡ **Instant Navigation**: Removed all animations for lightning-fast arrow navigation
- 🚫 **Smart Back Arrow**: Automatically disables back arrow when minDate is set
- 🎯 **Better UX**: Prevents navigation to invalid date ranges
- 🗓️ **Previous Month Days**: Now shows last few days of previous month for better context
- 🎨 **Enhanced Styling**: Improved visual hierarchy with better day cell sizing
- 🖱️ **Interactive Previous Days**: Previous month days are now selectable and interactive
- 🧹 **Code Optimization**: Cleaner, more maintainable codebase
- 📦 **Smaller Bundle**: Reduced CSS and JavaScript footprint

### v1.4.11
- 🎨 **UI Improvements**: Enhanced day cell sizing and visual hierarchy
- 🖱️ **Better Interactions**: Improved click and hover states for previous month days

### v1.4.10
- 🗓️ **Previous Month Display**: Added last few days of previous month for better context
- 🎯 **Smart Selection**: Previous month days are now selectable and interactive

### v1.4.9
- 🚫 **Range Fix**: Fixed range highlighting on empty/previous month days
- 🎨 **Styling Updates**: Improved visual consistency across all day types

### v1.4.8
- ⚡ **Performance**: Optimized calendar generation and rendering
- 🧹 **Code Cleanup**: Removed unused animation code and improved maintainability

### v1.4.6
- 🔧 **Fixed Import Paths**: Corrected package exports for proper module resolution
- 📦 **Better Package Structure**: Improved npm package configuration

### v1.4.5
- 🐛 Bug fixes and stability improvements
- 🔧 Enhanced error handling
- 📱 Improved mobile responsiveness
- 🎨 Minor UI/UX improvements

### v1.4.0
- ✅ Performance optimizations (30% smaller bundle)
- ✅ OnPush change detection strategy
- ✅ Memoized date comparisons
- ✅ Tree-shakable architecture
- ✅ Enhanced TypeScript support
- ✅ Improved accessibility
- ✅ Better mobile responsiveness

## 📜 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) file for details.

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Sachin Dilshan**
- 📧 Email: [sachindilshan040@gmail.com](mailto:sachindilshan040@gmail.com)
- 🐙 GitHub: [@toozuuu](https://github.com/toozuuu)
- 📦 NPM: [ngxsmk-datepicker](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngxsmk-datepicker)

## ⭐ Support

If you find this library helpful, please consider:
- ⭐ **Starring** the repository
- 🐛 **Reporting** bugs and issues
- 💡 **Suggesting** new features
- 🤝 **Contributing** code improvements
- 📢 **Sharing** with the community

Commit message:

feat(datepicker): add options to show/hide footer buttons
Add showClearButton and showCloseButton inputs to allow users to conditionally show or hide the clear and close buttons in the datepicker footer. Update the demo application and documentation to reflect this new customization feature.

projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/README.md, after:

# ngxsmk-datepicker Library

A modern, powerful, and fully customizable date and date-range picker component designed for Angular 17+ and Ionic applications. Seamlessly integrates with both frameworks, offering a flexible, mobile-friendly UI and advanced features to enhance date selection experiences in your apps.

## 📦 Package Information

- **NPM Package**: [ngxsmk-datepicker](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngxsmk-datepicker)
- **GitHub Repository**: [https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker](https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker)
- **Live Demo**: [https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker)
- **GitHub Pages Demo**: [https://ngxsmk.github.io/ngxsmk-datepicker/](https://ngxsmk.github.io/ngxsmk-datepicker/)
- **Version**: 1.7.0
- **License**: MIT
- **Author**: Sachin Dilshan

## 📷 Screenshots

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker/raw/main/projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/1.png" alt="Angular Advanced Date Range Picker" width="420" />
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker/raw/main/projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/2.png" alt="Angular Localization" width="420" />
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/NGXSMK/ngxsmk-datepicker/raw/main/projects/ngxsmk-datepicker/docs/3.png" alt="Angular Single Date Selection" width="420" />
</p>

## 🚀 Performance Optimizations

This library has been optimized for maximum performance:

- **30% Smaller Bundle**: Optimized build configuration and tree-shaking
- **40% Faster Rendering**: OnPush change detection strategy with proper triggers
- **60% Faster Selection**: Memoized date comparisons and debounced operations
- **Zero Dependencies**: Standalone component with no external dependencies
- **Tree-shakable**: Only import what you need
- **Memory Efficient**: Cache size limits prevent memory leaks
- **Hardware Accelerated**: CSS optimizations for smooth animations
- **Mobile Optimized**: Touch-friendly interactions and responsive design

## ✨ Features

- **Multiple Selection Modes**: Supports `single`, `range`, and `multiple` date selection
- **Inline and Popover Display**: Can be rendered inline or as a popover with automatic mode detection
- **Light and Dark Themes**: Includes built-in support for light and dark modes
- **Holiday Marking**: Automatically mark and disable holidays using a custom `HolidayProvider`
- **Holiday Tooltips**: Hover over holiday dates to see holiday names as tooltips
- **Disabled Dates**: Disable specific dates by passing an array of date strings or Date objects
- **Date & Time Selection**: Supports optional time inputs with configurable minute intervals
- **12h/24h Time Support**: Uses internal 24-hour timekeeping but displays a user-friendly 12-hour clock with AM/PM toggle
- **Predefined Date Ranges**: Offers quick selection of common ranges (e.g., "Last 7 Days")
- **Advanced Localization (i18n)**: Automatically handles month/weekday names and week start days based on the browser's locale
- **Previous Month Context**: Shows last few days of previous month for better date selection context
- **Smart Initial View**: Automatically shows minDate's month when minDate is in the future
- **Custom Styling**: All component elements are prefixed with `ngxsmk-` and themeable via CSS custom properties
- **Zero Dependencies**: The component is standalone and lightweight

## 🚀 Installation

```bash
npm install ngxsmk-datepicker
```

## 📖 Usage

ngxsmk-datepicker is a standalone component, so you can import it directly into your component or module.

### 1. Import the Component

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { NgxsmkDatepickerComponent, DateRange, HolidayProvider } from 'ngxsmk-datepicker';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [NgxsmkDatepickerComponent],
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Example for predefined ranges
  public myRanges: DateRange = {
    'Today': [new Date(), new Date()],
    'Last 7 Days': [new Date(new Date().setDate(new Date().getDate() - 6)), new Date()],
    'This Month': [new Date(new Date().getFullYear(), new Date().getMonth(), 1), new Date(new Date().getFullYear(), new Date().getMonth() + 1, 0)],
  };

  // Example for disabling weekends
  isWeekend = (date: Date): boolean => {
    const day = date.getDay();
    return day === 0 || day === 6; // Sunday or Saturday
  };

  onDateChange(value: Date | { start: Date; end: Date } | Date[]) {
    console.log('Date changed:', value);
  }
}
```

### 2. Add it to Your Template

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [mode]="'range'"
  [ranges]="myRanges"
  [showTime]="true"
  [minuteInterval]="15"
  [minDate]="today"
  [isInvalidDate]="isWeekend"
  [locale]="'en-US'"
  [theme]="'light'"
  [inline]="'auto'"
  (valueChange)="onDateChange($event)">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### 3. Disabled Dates Example

Disable specific dates by passing an array of date strings or Date objects:

```typescript
// In your component
disabledDates = ['10/21/2025', '08/21/2025', '10/15/2025', '10/8/2025', '10/3/2025'];

// In your template
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [mode]="'single'"
  [disabledDates]="disabledDates"
  placeholder="Select a date">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### 4. Holiday Tooltips Example

Holiday dates automatically show tooltips when you hover over them:

```typescript
// Holiday provider with tooltips
class MyHolidayProvider implements HolidayProvider {
  private holidays: { [key: string]: string } = {
    '2025-01-01': 'New Year\'s Day',
    '2025-07-04': 'Independence Day',
    '2025-12-25': 'Christmas Day',
  };

  isHoliday(date: Date): boolean {
    const key = this.formatDateKey(date);
    return !!this.holidays[key];
  }

  getHolidayLabel(date: Date): string | null {
    const key = this.formatDateKey(date);
    return this.holidays[key] || null;
  }
}

// In your template
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [holidayProvider]="holidayProvider"
  [disableHolidays]="false"
  placeholder="Hover over holidays to see tooltips">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

### 5. Smart Initial View with Future minDate

When you set a `minDate` that is in the future, the datepicker will automatically open to that month:

```typescript
// Example: Current date is 10/21/2025, but you want to restrict selection to December 2025
const futureMinDate = new Date(2025, 11, 15); // December 15, 2025
const futureMaxDate = new Date(2025, 11, 21); // December 21, 2025

// The datepicker will automatically show December 2025 when opened
<ngxsmk-datepicker
  [minDate]="futureMinDate"
  [maxDate]="futureMaxDate"
  [mode]="'single'">
</ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## ⚙️ API Reference

### Inputs

| Property | Type | Default | Description |
|:---------|:-----|:--------|:------------|
| `mode` | `'single' \| 'range' \| 'multiple'` | `'single'` | The selection mode |
| `inline` | `boolean \| 'always' \| 'auto'` | `false` | Controls the display mode |
| `locale` | `string` | `navigator.language` | Sets the locale for language and regional formatting |
| `theme` | `'light' \| 'dark'` | `'light'` | The color theme |
| `showRanges` | `boolean` | `true` | If true, displays the predefined ranges panel when in 'range' mode |
| `minDate` | `DateInput` | `null` | The earliest selectable date. When set to a future date, the calendar will automatically open to that month |
| `maxDate` | `DateInput` | `null` | The latest selectable date |
| `isInvalidDate` | `(date: Date) => boolean` | `() => false` | A function to programmatically disable specific dates |
| `ranges` | `DateRange` | `null` | An object of predefined date ranges |
| `minuteInterval` | `number` | `1` | Interval for minute dropdown options |
| `showTime` | `boolean` | `false` | Enables the hour/minute/AM/PM selection section |
| `value` | `DatepickerValue` | `null` | The initial selected date, date range, or array of dates |
| `startAt` | `DateInput` | `null` | The date to initially center the calendar view on |
| `holidayProvider` | `HolidayProvider` | `null` | An object that provides holiday information |
| `disableHolidays` | `boolean` | `false` | If true, disables holiday dates from being selected |
| `disabledDates` | `(string \| Date)[]` | `[]` | Array of dates to disable. Supports both string dates (MM/DD/YYYY) and Date objects |
| `prevMonthLabel` | `string` | `'Previous month'` | Aria-label for the previous month navigation button. |
| `nextMonthLabel` | `string` | `'Next month'` | Aria-label for the next month navigation button. |
| `showClearButton`| `boolean`| `true` | If true, displays the clear button in the footer. |
| `showCloseButton`| `boolean`| `true` | If true, displays the close button in the footer. |

### Outputs

| Event | Payload | Description |
|:------|:--------|:------------|
| `valueChange` | `DatepickerValue` | Emits the newly selected date, range, or array of dates |
| `action` | `{ type: string; payload?: any }` | Emits various events like `dateSelected`, `timeChanged`, etc. |

## 🎨 Theming

You can easily customize the colors of the datepicker by overriding the CSS custom properties in your own stylesheet.

```css
ngxsmk-datepicker {
  --datepicker-primary-color: #d9267d;      /* Main color for selected dates */
  --datepicker-primary-contrast: #ffffff;  /* Text color on selected dates */
  --datepicker-range-background: #fce7f3;  /* Background for the date range bar */
}
```

To enable the dark theme, simply bind the theme input:

```html
<ngxsmk-datepicker [theme]="'dark'"></ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## 🌍 Localization

The `locale` input controls all internationalization. It automatically formats month names, weekday names, and sets the first day of the week.

```html
<!-- Renders the calendar in German -->
<ngxsmk-datepicker [locale]="'de-DE'"></ngxsmk-datepicker>

<!-- Renders the calendar in French -->
<ngxsmk-datepicker [locale]="'fr-FR'"></ngxsmk-datepicker>
```

## 🎯 Browser Support

- **Chrome** 90+
- **Firefox** 88+
- **Safari** 14+
- **Edge** 90+
- **Mobile Safari** 14+
- **Chrome Mobile** 90+

## 📊 Performance Metrics

- **Bundle Size**: 30% smaller than previous versions
- **Initial Render**: 40% faster
- **Date Selection**: 60% faster
- **Memory Usage**: 25% reduction
- **Change Detection**: 60% fewer cycles
- **Mobile Performance**: 50% faster touch interactions
- **Memory Leaks**: 100% eliminated with cache limits
- **Type Safety**: 100% TypeScript strict mode compliance

## 🐛 Bug Fixes & Improvements

### Critical Bug Fixes in v1.4.15:
- ✅ **Change Detection**: Fixed OnPush change detection issues with proper `markForCheck()` triggers
- ✅ **Date Comparison**: Fixed null safety issues in date range comparisons
- ✅ **Memory Leaks**: Added cache size limits to prevent memory leaks
- ✅ **Type Safety**: Improved TypeScript types and null safety checks
- ✅ **Mobile UX**: Enhanced mobile interactions and touch feedback
- ✅ **Performance**: Optimized template bindings with memoized functions
- ✅ **Accessibility**: Better focus states and keyboard navigation
- ✅ **Build System**: Improved build configuration and optimization

### Performance Enhancements:
- 🚀 **30% Smaller Bundle**: Optimized build configuration
- 🚀 **40% Faster Rendering**: Enhanced OnPush change detection
- 🚀 **60% Faster Selection**: Memoized date comparisons
- 🚀 **Memory Efficient**: Cache size limits prevent memory leaks
- 🚀 **Hardware Accelerated**: CSS optimizations for smooth animations

## 🔧 Development

### Building the Library

```bash
# Build the library
npm run build

# Build optimized version
npm run build:optimized

# Analyze bundle size
npm run build:analyze
```

### Testing

```bash
# Run unit tests
npm test

# Run e2e tests
npm run e2e
```

## 📦 Package Structure

```
ngxsmk-datepicker/
├── src/
│   ├── lib/
│   │   ├── components/          # Custom components
│   │   ├── utils/               # Utility functions
│   │   ├── styles/              # CSS styles
│   │   └── ngxsmk-datepicker.ts # Main component
│   └── public-api.ts            # Public API exports
├── docs/                        # Documentation
└── package.json                 # Package configuration
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome and appreciate contributions from the community! Please see our [Contributing Guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 📄 Changelog

### v1.7.0 (Latest)
- 🧪 **Issue Test Suite**: Added comprehensive test suites for issues #8 and #13
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Fixed programmatic value setting and Angular 21 compatibility tests
- 🧹 **Code Cleanup**: Removed unnecessary files, folders, and comments from codebase
- 📝 **Test Improvements**: Enhanced test coverage with issue-specific test files
- 🔧 **Test Fixes**: Fixed disabled date tests and integration test issues
- 🎯 **Code Quality**: Improved code maintainability by removing redundant comments

### v1.6.0
- 🎯 **Programmatic Value Setting**: Added `value` input property to set datepicker value programmatically, perfect for server-side API data integration
- 🎨 **Enhanced Demo App**: Completely redesigned demo application with TokiForge-inspired modern UI and API documentation style
- 🚀 **GitHub Pages Deployment**: Added automated GitHub Pages deployment with GitHub Actions workflow
- 📚 **Improved Documentation**: Enhanced demo app with comprehensive examples, code snippets, and interactive documentation
- 🔧 **Build Optimizations**: Updated CSS budget limits and improved build configuration
- 🎨 **Modern UI Design**: Beautiful gradient themes, glass-morphism effects, and improved visual hierarchy
- 📱 **Better UX**: Enhanced navigation, code copying functionality, and responsive design
- 🛠️ **Developer Experience**: Improved build scripts and deployment automation

### v1.5.0
- 🚀 **Angular 21 Support**: Full compatibility with Angular 21 RC versions
- ⚡ **Zone-less Support**: Works without zone.js for improved performance
- 🧪 **Comprehensive Tests**: Added extensive test suite covering all features
- 🔧 **Angular 17-21 Compatibility**: Supports Angular versions 17, 18, 19, 20, and 21
- 📦 **Dependency Updates**: Updated to Angular 21 RC and latest build tools
- 🧹 **Code Cleanup**: Removed unnecessary documentation files and comments
- 📝 **Improved Keywords**: Added version-specific keywords for better discoverability
- 🎯 **Peer Dependencies**: Updated to support Angular 17-21 range

### v1.4.16
- 📚 **Documentation**: Comprehensive README updates with latest features and improvements
- 🎯 **Version Management**: Updated version references across all package files
- 📖 **User Experience**: Enhanced documentation with better examples and API references
- 🔧 **Maintenance**: Improved project structure and documentation consistency
- 📦 **Package Updates**: Synchronized version numbers across all package.json files
- 🎨 **Documentation**: Added detailed bug fixes and performance metrics
- 🚀 **Developer Experience**: Better setup instructions and contribution guidelines

### v1.4.15
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Fixed 10 critical bugs including change detection issues and date comparison errors
- ⚡ **Performance**: Enhanced OnPush change detection with proper triggers
- 🎯 **Memory Management**: Added cache size limits to prevent memory leaks
- 🔧 **Type Safety**: Improved TypeScript types and null safety
- 📱 **Mobile Optimization**: Enhanced mobile responsive design with touch-friendly interactions
- 🎨 **UI Improvements**: Better visual feedback and accessibility
- 🚀 **Build Optimization**: Improved build configuration and tree-shaking
- 🧹 **Code Quality**: Enhanced code maintainability and performance

### v1.4.13
- 🚫 **Disabled Dates**: New `disabledDates` input property to disable specific dates
- 🎯 **Date String Support**: Supports both string dates (MM/DD/YYYY) and Date objects
- 💡 **Holiday Tooltips**: Hover over holiday dates to see holiday names as tooltips
- 🎨 **Enhanced UX**: Better visual feedback for disabled dates
- 📦 **Improved API**: More flexible date disabling options
- 🎯 **Smart Initial View**: Datepicker now automatically opens to minDate's month when minDate is set to a future date
- 🚀 **Enhanced UX**: No more scrolling through months to reach future date ranges
- 📅 **Intelligent Defaults**: Automatically centers the calendar view on the earliest available date

### v1.4.12
- ⚡ **Instant Navigation**: Removed all animations for lightning-fast arrow navigation
- 🚫 **Smart Back Arrow**: Automatically disables back arrow when minDate is set
- 🎯 **Better UX**: Prevents navigation to invalid date ranges
- 🗓️ **Previous Month Days**: Now shows last few days of previous month for better context
- 🎨 **Enhanced Styling**: Improved visual hierarchy with better day cell sizing
- 🖱️ **Interactive Previous Days**: Previous month days are now selectable and interactive
- 🧹 **Code Optimization**: Cleaner, more maintainable codebase
- 📦 **Smaller Bundle**: Reduced CSS and JavaScript footprint

### v1.4.11
- 🎨 **UI Improvements**: Enhanced day cell sizing and visual hierarchy
- 🖱️ **Better Interactions**: Improved click and hover states for previous month days

### v1.4.10
- 🗓️ **Previous Month Display**: Added last few days of previous month for better context
- 🎯 **Smart Selection**: Previous month days are now selectable and interactive

### v1.4.9
- 🚫 **Range Fix**: Fixed range highlighting on empty/previous month days
- 🎨 **Styling Updates**: Improved visual consistency across all day types

### v1.4.8
- ⚡ **Performance**: Optimized calendar generation and rendering
- 🧹 **Code Cleanup**: Removed unused animation code and improved maintainability

### v1.4.6
- 🔧 **Fixed Import Paths**: Corrected package exports for proper module resolution
- 📦 **Better Package Structure**: Improved npm package configuration

### v1.4.5
- 🐛 Bug fixes and stability improvements
- 🔧 Enhanced error handling
- 📱 Improved mobile responsiveness
- 🎨 Minor UI/UX improvements

### v1.4.0
- ✅ Performance optimizations (30% smaller bundle)
- ✅ OnPush change detection strategy
- ✅ Memoized date comparisons
- ✅ Tree-shakable architecture
- ✅ Enhanced TypeScript support
- ✅ Improved accessibility
- ✅ Better mobile responsiveness

## 📜 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) file for details.

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Sachin Dilshan**
- 📧 Email: [sachindilshan040@gmail.com](mailto:sachindilshan040@gmail.com)
- 🐙 GitHub: [@toozuuu](https://github.com/toozuuu)
- 📦 NPM: [ngxsmk-datepicker](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngxsmk-datepicker)

## ⭐ Support

If you find this library helpful, please consider:
- ⭐ **Starring** the repository
- 🐛 **Reporting** bugs and issues
- 💡 **Suggesting** new features
- 🤝 **Contributing** code improvements
- 📢 **Sharing** with the community
